# Smart-City_Sparkplug
A smart city is a municipality that uses Internet of Things to increase operational efficiency, share information with the public and improve both the quality of government services and citizen welfare.
The concept of Smart City using IoT is a comprehensive framework that caters to the needs of multiple facets of projects related to smart city and thus allowing cities to utilise urban networking in order to increase economic prowess, and build more efficient, unique technological solutions to deal with the numerous challenges of the city. Smart City is the product of advanced development of the new era of information technology and smart economy, with Internet of Things technology (IoT) as its heart. The Internet of Things is modular approach to integrate sensors (RFID, IR, GPS, laser scanners, etc.) Into everyday objects, and inter connecting them over the internet through specific protocols for exchange of information and communications, which leads to achieving intelligent recognition, location tracking, monitoring and management. A Smart City can only be formed by interconnecting all of these intelligent feature. The objective of our paper is how Internet and Sensors can help to develop a city to smart.
Smart cities start with a smart public infrastructure to deliver clean water, dependable power, safe gas, and efficient public lighting. And as they free up resources by intelligently delivering essential services, they are able to invest in other services to improve quality of life.
Fostering collaboration between the public and private sector and city residents is key to creating a smart citizen who will be engaged and empowered and positively contribute to the city and community. Smart city projects should include plans to make the data transparent and available to citizens, often through an open data portal or mobile app. This enables residents to engage with the data and understand what it is used for.
